---
layout: page
title: "mpReview: Annotation of prostate MRI"
teaser: "3D Slicer extension for interactive annotation of prostate multiparametric MRI"
comments: true
header:
  image_fullwidth: beacon.jpg
categories:
  - tool
---

# About

_mpReview_ (formerly distributed as _PCampReview_) is an extension of 3D Slicer that supports the workflow of annotation of multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) with the regions of interest. This extension was developed to support annotation of prostate mpMRI. The extension consists of two modules:
* _mpReviewPreprocessor_ is a batch mode tool that organizes DICOM dataset containing multiple patients/studies into a normalized representation. This tool attempts to identify the type of DICOM series and map it to the types used in prostate mpMRI assessment (e.g., T2-weighted, DWI and DCE series), and stores reconstructed volumes for each of the series to simplify data loading into 3D Slicer. This module also establishes a hierarchy of folders that is subsequently used by _mpReview_ to organize the annotations alongside the reconstructed volumes.
* _mpReview_ is an interactive module that is initialized with the directory containing the results of running _mpReviewPreprocessor_ on the input DICOM dataset, and presents the user with the interface to
 1. select the study from the list of pre-processed studies
 2. select the series of interest for a given study
 3. iterate over the slices of the selected series in an automatically initialized layout containing axial reformats of all selected series that can be scrolled synchronously
 4. segment regions of interest, while allowing to assign the type of tissue being annotated based on a controlled terminology
 5. save the timestamped and authored segmented regions of interest

The _mpReview_ module also shows how it can be integrated with externally hosted Google Forms to support form-based evaluation, such as assessment of image quality or PI-RADS reporting.

# Availability

**Installation**: _mpReview_ can be installed as an extension to 3D Slicer via 3D Slicer _Extension manager_.

**Documentation**: [link](https://www.slicer.org/wiki/Documentation/Nightly/Extensions/mpReview) (documentation is very sparse at the moment, if you want to use this extension and are confused, please contact Andrey Fedorov!)

**Source code**: [link](https://github.com/SlicerProstate/mpReview)

# Publications

_mpReview_ extension has been used to process mpMRI prostate data for a number of studies. Below are some of those that we are aware of:

* Glazer DI, Mayo-Smith WW, Sainani NI, et al. Interreader Agreement of Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System Version 2 Using an In-Bore MRI-Guided Prostate Biopsy Cohort: A Single Institution’s Initial Experience. AJR Am J Roentgenol. Am Roentgen Ray Soc; 2017;209(3):W145–W151 [link](http://dx.doi.org/10.2214/AJR.16.17551).
* Hassanzadeh E, Alessandrino F, Olubiyi OI, et al. Comparison of quantitative apparent diffusion coefficient parameters with prostate imaging reporting and data system V2 assessment for detection of clinically significant peripheral zone prostate cancer. Abdom Radiol (NY). 2017; [link](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00261-017-1297-y).
* Glazer DI, Hassanzadeh E, Fedorov A, et al. Diffusion-weighted endorectal MR imaging at 3T for prostate cancer: correlation with tumor cell density and percentage Gleason pattern on whole mount pathology. Abdom Radiol (NY). 2017;42(3):918–925 [link](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00261-016-0942-1).

# Grants support

* U24 CA180918
* U01 CA151261
